📘 Day 14 – Color Input Challenge (React)
📌 Overview

On Day 14, I completed Chapter 10: Project Challenge from the React tutorial.

In this project, I built a small interactive app where the user can type a color into an input field, and a square dynamically updates its background color based on the entered value.

The project also includes:

A text display inside the square that reflects the input value
A button to toggle the text color between black and white for better visibility

This challenge helped reinforce important React concepts related to state, controlled inputs, dynamic styling, and event handling.

⚙️ Features
🎨 Dynamic background color updates
⌨️ Controlled input field
📝 Text inside square reflects input value
🔄 Toggle text color (black ↔ white)
⚡ Real-time UI updates using React state
🧩 Components Used
1. App
Main/root component
Manages application state
Passes data and functions to child components
2. Input
Handles user input
Updates state as user types
3. Square
Displays the colored square
Dynamically changes background color
Displays current text input
4. Button
Toggles text color
Improves text visibility on dark backgrounds
🔁 Core Logic
🎯 Controlled Input

The value of the input field is controlled using React state.

Example:

const [color, setColor] = useState("");

Whenever the user types:

onChange={(e) => setColor(e.target.value)}

React updates the UI instantly.

🎨 Dynamic Styling

The square background changes dynamically:

style={{ backgroundColor: color }}

The text inside the square also updates based on the input value.

🔄 Text Color Toggle

A button toggles the text color between black and white:

setTextColor(textColor === "black" ? "white" : "black");

This improves readability when darker colors are used.

🧠 Key Concepts Learned
🔹 Controlled Inputs
React controls the input value using state
🔹 Dynamic Styling
Inline styles can be updated based on state changes
🔹 State Management
UI automatically re-renders when state changes
🔹 Event Handling
Used button clicks and input events to trigger updates
🚀 Improvements for Future
Add color validation
Add preset color buttons
Add HEX/RGB support
Add smooth transitions between colors
📝 New Change Going Forward

Starting from Day 14 onward:

I will no longer attach screenshots of the code
Instead, I will share the GitHub repository link for each project

This will help keep the posts cleaner while also making the full source code accessible.

💡 Summary

This project was a great exercise in understanding how React handles user input and dynamically updates the UI in real time.

Even though the project was simple, it strengthened my understanding of:

Controlled components
State-driven rendering
Dynamic styling in React